Kadai Chicken is a delicious Indian chicken curry where chicken is cooked with freshly ground spices. This spicy curry goes well with naan or any other Indian bread.

If you are looking for more Chicken Recipes, here are some more that can be prepared for everyday meals – Chicken Angara, Chicken Masala, Achari Chicken, Fresh Methi Chicken Curry, and Badami Chicken Curry. 
Chicken – I make Chicken very often at home, as it is high in protein. And this dish is my favorite way to use Chicken for a curry.

I always try to use chicken with the bone to make curries as the bones add a lot of flavor to them. Having said that, you can still go ahead and use boneless chicken if you prefer that.
For Marination – In this recipe, Chicken is marinated with certain ingredients that include ginger garlic paste, Kashmiri red chili powder, salt, and lemon juice. It is kept aside for 30 minutes so that the chicken soaks up the flavor well.

Kashmiri red chilli powder gives the chicken a nice colour, without making it too spicy.

Onions and Capsicum – Just like Kadai Paneer, here also we will add cubed Onion and Capsicum along with Chicken.

Onions and Capsicum are cubed in big pieces and then cooked on high heat to get that smoky flavor.

For Kadai Masala – Coriander seeds, cumin seeds, fennel seeds, black peppercorns, and dry red chilies are roasted till they are aromatic and then ground into a fine powder.

The dry red chilies give this powder a beautiful red color, which also adds to the color of this gravy.

Yogurt and Fresh Cream – These two ingredients make the gravy creamy and also adds richness to the same, making it even tastier.

Other Ingredients – To make the base curry, we will need some everyday ingredients that include oil, black cardamom, cinnamon, bay leaves, onions, tomato puree, Kasuri methi, ginger garlic, green chilies, all-purpose flour, garam masala powder, salt, and turmeric powder.

These whole spices, spice powders and other ingredients combined adds a lot of taste in this dish, which makes it irresistible.
Step By Step Recipe

Mix chicken with ginger garlic paste, Kashmiri red chili powder, salt, and lemon juice in a bowl.
Cover the bowl and let the chicken marinate for 30 minutes.
Dry roast coriander seeds, cumin seeds, fennel seeds, black peppercorn, and dry red chilies on medium-low heat until they are browned and fragrant.
Cool and grind the roasted spices to make a powder.
Heat ghee and vegetable oil in a pan.
Ghee and oil heating in a pan.
Once the oil is hot, add black cardamom, cinnamon and bay leaves and let them crackle for a few seconds.
Add onion and fry until it turns light brown.
Add ginger, garlic, tomato, green chili and cook for 3-4 minutes.
Now add the marinated chicken and the ground masala and cook on high heat for 5-6 minutes.
Add yogurt whisked with all purpose flour. Whisking yogurt with all purpose flour prevents it from splitting.
Add ½ cup of water and salt to taste and cover the pan.
Cook the chicken on low heat until it is almost cooked. Add capsicum, onion cubes, garam masala, and turmeric powder and cook for another 2-3 minutes.
Add fresh cream and kauri methi and mix well. Serve hot.